---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---


*Workflows and Git*

Having worked with Git before, the in-class activity was a helpful exercise for developing a more in-depth understanding of its use. I am experienced with using Git so I did not find the steps in the activity to be confusing, what's more is that, I suspect, my teammates were experienced with it as well so we were able to finish the activity. I encountered a merge conflict early-on when trying to push my edited version of the README.md file to the remote repository as the file had already been modified by my teammates. However, after using `git pull` and resolving the merge conflict locally, I was able to successfully push my version of the file to the remote repository. This procedure was different from that which was described in the slides in that we were tasked with forking the repository aftering altering the master branch in the main repository. In doing so, there was a greater chance for merge conflicts because there was no structured procedure for confirming that one's changes would not create a merge conflict.

While reading [7 Things That Make a Great Open Source Contribution][3], _#5 Written to match the rest of the project_ and _#6 Designed to minimize the amount of new code or writing_ resonated with me. While reading through a project's codebase, I often encounter different styles and so, generally, I try to match with the style that is predominant. I have wondered if it would be better to implement a style I thought was more readable, but have always deferred to the existing code style. What's more is that I think #6 emphasizes the necessity of having a strong grasp of a project's codebase before making a contribution. In this way, one is more likely to know where to look to find reusable code.

After reading [How to Contribute to Open Source][3], I learned that documentation makes up a large portion of open source contributions. In knowing this, I think watching a project on Github as well as thoroughly reading through the documentation would provide me with the technical knowledge of its inner workings.

Review material from: 
 * [A Beginner's Very Bumpy Journey Through the World of Open Source][1]
 * [7 Things That Make a Great Open Source Contribution][3]
 * [How to Contribute to Open Source][3]

[1]: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/
[2]: https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source-contribution/
[3]: https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/

<!-- 
A note on contributions, 
push blog post[] 
edit contributions page[]
-->
