---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---


*Humanitarian Free Open Source Software*

<!-- 
    Write your comments about Tom Callaway's blog post.
    The second article is intended to convince CIO's about the importance of open source for companies. What are your reactions to this article?
    Would you want to work in a company that only produced open source software? Why or why not? What would your dream job be? How would you like to see the business of software production in ten years?

    Everyone will be giving a presentation in the class about their contributions. Presentations will span three days starting the Thursday after Thanksgiving break. Start to plan your presentation.
-->

<!-- Write your comments about Tom Callaway's blog post. 
[Musings on Open Source Software Business Models][1]
-->
In reading [Musings on Open Source Software Business Models][1], Tom Callaway identifies an important point about open-source software where the widespread implementation of an open core model by open source software companies does not work as a long term strategy. It may be that the open core model is most similar to a common practice in business of garnering customers' interest by offering a free trial or some sampling of their product in order to incite them to pay for the the actual product. The open core model is reflective of this in the sense that the open core is representative of a basic usage of the company's product which well in of itself, but users must pay for the cost of additional features that meet their individual needs. This approach has proven itself effective in many sectors, but technology sector is comprised of a technical user base and so there is less incentive to pay for unmodifiable features that only somewhat meet the needs of the user. What's more is that users are accustomed to making modifications to improve software and so making having a pay barrier for additional features seems counterintuitive. In this way, Tidelift introduces a unique approach to ensuring that open-source projects meet the needs of their users by providing a sort of "open-source financing" by companies that use the projects.

<!-- The second article is intended to convince CIO's about the importance of open source for companies. What are your reactions to this article?
[8 advantages of using open source in the enterprise.][2]
-->
While open-source projects do offer flexibility and agility because it is easy to start building on the on the platform, it is hard to see this competing with companies like Microsoft and Oracle whose tailored staff is paid to specialize in developing their proprietary software. Considering software companies of a smaller scale, it is easy to see how the flexibility and agility that open-source offers could quickly out-pace them, but what with the fact that many contributors are also software engineers belonging to other companies, it seems as though there must be a limit to this until the industry itself begins to shift.

<!--  Would you want to work in a company that only produced open source software? Why or why not? What would your dream job be? How would you like to see the business of software production in ten years?
-->
I think after acquiring more industry experience, I would be interested in working in a company that only produced open source software as a way to participate in many projects at once.


<!-- HFOSS (Humanitarian Free Open Source Software) 
	[How a university's 3D-printed prosthetics club provides devices for amputees][3]
-->
When thinking of open-source, the immediate jump is to something software related; however, [How a university's 3D-printed prosthetics club provides devices for amputees][3] discusses open-source in the context of design. More specifically, the design of 3D-printed prosthetics which has created a unique opportunity for a community of designers to collaborate directly with those needing prosthetics. Compared to the more frequent approach to design where an individual's approach forms the basis for the overall project, by implementing an open-source approach, technical insights from a broad range of fields may be implemented.

[1]: https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html
[2]: https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/1/top-advantages-open-source-offers-over-proprietary-solutions
[3]: https://opensource.com/article/17/10/enable-update
