---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---


*Searching for projects to contribute to*

<!--
It is time to start searching for projects. The above readings will help guide you in what to look for in a project.
I will provide suggestions for where and how to look. In this week's blog, write about which projects you looked at, why you rejected them, which are still possible, and which look good to you. Treat your blog like a diary this week. Also comment on the talk by Karen Sandler.
-->
Using CodeTriage and GitHub Explore I found that [React][1] and [Gatsby][2] seem like good projects to contribute to. I had the opportunity to work with both this past summer in a business setting so I am familiar with their functionality from a user's perspective. What's more is that the primary language they utilize is Javascript, which I have come to be well-versed through my projects. Consequently, I am able to navigate the development environment locally and, since they are both fairly recent projects, I have found that there is a currently active community contributing to them with clear documentation on how to contribute. I think the main challenge will be identifying a good issue to start with from one of the projects.

I also found [Styled-components][3], which is also written in Javascript, seems like a good project in the sense that it is designed to be used with libraries like React that promote component based software design. The distinction is that this project has a greater emphasis on the implementation of styling rather than software development. In this way, it is perhaps less likely to find a complex issue than it is to find an issue that is easier to understand.

I found Karen Sandler's personal experience with open source software to be compelling in that it speaks to the fact that even though there is a solution to one problem, one should not assume that it does not come with its own issues. Just as was the case with her pacemaker, though it addressed her heart condition, it came with the issue of applying unnecessary shocks in response to the heart palpitations that came with pregnancy. This, in and of itself, is representative of the extent to which the population is accepting of technology without considering how it is implemented. Much in the same way that Ms. Sandler spoke of how often people will read the Terms and Conditions for products, it is important for users to understand what is part of their technology. One may think of the majority of the population as users of technology that they may not fully understand and though it may be possible that, at some point in the future, software will be predominantly open source, this still comes with the issue of providing users with a comprehensive understanding of how their devices work in an industry that heavily founded on complexity.


[1]: https://github.com/facebook/react
[2]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby
[3]: https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components
