---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---


*Wikipedia contributions and isolationg issues*

<!--
    Write about what you find, or what you discovered and what was hard while investigating Wikipedia's pages.
    
    Update your progress on the issues you have isolated in your project. Be detailed and be specific. Provide links to issues, to Pull Requests, to the project. If relevant, provide links to your forked copy of the project if it is in the class organization, or even in your own GitHub account, if thatfork has commits or files that pertain to what you are writing. Give a timeline of your progress.
 -->

__Thoughts on "Makers and Takers"__

Dries Buytaert addresses the issue of Makers and Takers in the open source community where Makers may be understood as those that benefit from and invest significantly in open source. Comparatively, Takers may be defined as those that primarily benefit monitarily from open source without making significant contributions back to the projects. In this way, a Butaert describes a sort of [Prisoner's Dilemma][8] that develops where there is no clear incentive for collaboration. It was particularly interesting to read about Elinor Ostrom's observations on solutions to the [free-rider problem][9] where common goods are successfully managed by their communities without the need for privatization or centralization. The fact that the method hinges on a shift from being openly accessible to having closed access suggests a sort of terminus to a project that doesn't seem to be discussed in open source. Using the set of restrictions Ostrom descibes:
	
	(1) who has access to the resource
	(2) how the resource is shared
	(3) how maintenance responsibilities are shared
	(4) who inspects that rules are followed
	(5) what fines are levied against anyone who breaks the rules
	(6) how conflicts are resolved
	(7) a process for collectively evolving these rules

it is possible to see open source project more so as a community developed tool rather than the community itself. By adapting this approach, I think the free-rider problem in open source could be better resolved. However, something to consider is, perhaps, the difference in the time it takes to build a resource like an irrigation system compared to a software development tool.

While reading the [Contributing to Wikipedia][1] documentation and analyzing the [primer][2], it was interesting to see that the article structure was similar to an issue on a Github repository That is to say, an article is treated similarly to an umbrella issue where it is separated into subsections or sub-issues which, in turn, allows for the work to be distributed among individuals and results in articles that are comprised of contributions from multiple sources. What's somewhat troubling is the ease with which edits can be made to most articles whereby, unless marked otherwise, anyone can make an edit without having to request a review. Though an edit can be reverted, it seems like this type of workflow brings more harm than good in that the overall user experience is impacted by reverts that are usually avoided by the use of techniques like PR reviews. In addition, the sheer number of rules and policies in the contributing documentation is also disorienting, though this seems to be more so a consequence of the type of the contributions that are made than a lack of organization.



✅ Read through Contributions documentation ([week 7][3])

✅ Setup Development Environment + [fork][6] of Gatsby ([week 8][4])

✅ Filter through potential issues ([week 9][5])

❓ Select an issue

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contributing_to_Wikipedia#Getting_started
[2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:A_primer_for_newcomers
[3]: https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/sjku1-weekly/week07/
[4]: https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/sjku1-weekly/week08/
[5]: https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/sjku1-weekly/week09/
[6]: https://github.com/sjku1/gatsby
[7]: https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source
[8]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prisoner%27s_dilemma
[9]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free-rider_problem

