---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


*Reviewing material about Open Source.*

After having reviewed the statements, I found that there were some things about open source that I had and had not realized. For example, I was unaware that companies will offer a "community" version of their software as open source and that most open source software is as reliable as its proprietary counterpart. What's more is that, though I had a general idea of the difference between freeware and shareware, this allowed me to form a more refined distinction between them.  
  In offering a free, open source version of their software, this allows a company to both benefit from contributions of code from their users as well as make their brand more visible because of the product's accessibility. By being able to use the open source version of the product, users are able to try it out for themselves at no cost. Offerings like technical support and added features to the product may then be viewed as "upgrades", in some sense, to a  user's existing version of the product. What's more is that the company itself benefits from potential technical insights to the source code from outside contributors.  
  My initial inclination was that most open source counterparts to commercial software are lacking in some way, but realized that this was unfounded as many open source projects benefit from their diverse community of users. On that same note, it may be that the reliability of an open source software is, in some sense, directly related to the breadth and expertise of its community. That being said, it would allow for the possibility of a software better suited for its users.  
  Freeware and shareware, are distinctly different in that shareware is used to incentivize users to purchase the commercial product. That is to say, shareware is usually the commercial software itself offered in a limited format, while freeware is software that is "free" in terms of price, but not use. In this way, freeware is similar to open source except that users often must get permission from the author to make modifications or view the source code as is the case with Skype and Discord. 

Review material from:
 * [10 Things to know about open source][1]
 * [What is Shareware?][2]

[1]: https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/
[2]: https://www.kaspersky.com/resource-center/definitions/shareware