---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---


*Final notes*

<!--

    This is the last blog post that you will write for this class. This is a chance to reflect on what you did. Go back to your first two blog posts. They asked you to write about

    why you decided to take a course in open source software.
    what types of contributions you thought would be suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project, and
    what types of projects interest you and how you saw your relationship to them.

Did the course meet your expectations? What was different than you expected? How would you change what you wrote with respect to the last two questions (from Blog Post 2?)
-->

The course met my expectations in regard to learning about different ways of contributing to open source. What's more is that there was even content related to the relationship between businesses and open source which I had been unaware of. I am glad that I was able to take a course in open source software as it introduced me to a lot of topics within open source such as FOSS, the implementation of licenses, Givers and Takers, as well as how it relates to personal data. What's more is that taking this course broadened my scope of the ways in which one can contribute to open source projects.

I did not expect to learn about open source as a way to make software more freely available to its users. I had previously thought of open source as another form of collaboration, but [Karen Sandler's][1] visit clearly articulated the importance of code being visible to its users.

I had hoped to make more significant contributions within the duration of the course; however, this was a good opportunity to become more familiar with Gatsby's community as well as its codebase. Having made primarily contributions that were documentation based, I would hope to be able to make a code based contribution as I continue with open source software.

Initially, my interest was solely in the projects that were software related, but I found the [article][2] on 3D-printed prosthetics to be really interesting. With that in mind, I would like to continue with my contributions to open source software, while also looking into the ways in which individuals make contributions to projects that are, in some sense, [open source design][3].

[1]: https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/sjku1-weekly/week06/
[2]: https://opensource.com/article/17/10/enable-update
[3]: https://www.thingiverse.com/

