---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---


_Some more advanced Git and theories about software engineering_



<!--
	reviewed sample git workflows that were done in class in order to develop a deeper understanding
-->


<!-- Cathedral and the Bazaar 


-->
The primary reading for this week was [The Cathedral and the Bazaar][1] by Eric Steven Raymond, which details an in-depth history of the theories about software engineering. In reading the text, several concpets stood out for me:

(1) [The Catheral and the Bazaar][1]
	
The conceptual framework of distinguishing open-source from close-source by likening a bazaar to a cathedral was interesting beyond the scope of software in that it speaks to a broader concept of a community of Makers. I think that this was a really interesting concept that was brought up in part because programmers are often portrayed as solitary workers, whereas, in reality, much of that work is done collaboratively. What's more is that adopting a bazaar-like workflow opens up the opportunity for a greater variety of users to look at the code thereby increasing the likelihood that improvements or fixes may be identified.

(2) [The Importance of Having Users][3]

As is noted in _Balancing Makers and Takers to scale and sustain open source_ article, end users are a fundamental component of a successful open source project because they provide insight into its use. From the perspective of an engineer, it is easy to get lost in the details of designing a feature, whereas the user's perspective is entirely focused on the function of the feature. In this way, it is easy to see how open source projects benefit both from contributors that focus on its usage and contributors that are well-versed in programming.

(3) [When is a Rose not a Rose?][4]

"Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around,", this point stood out because of the fact that when it comes to academia, it seems that much of it is about producing smart code rather than smart data structures. Comparatively, in industry it seems to be the reverse where if someone can produce a working solution, that is, in many ways, more important than spending more time developing the smartest solution. 

Our in-class activities this past weeek included another git workflow exercise that provided useful practice with the commands `git fetch`, `git rebase`, `git merge` along with a visualization tool called gitg that displayed changes in the distribution of changes across branches. I found this workflow particularly helpful because it really helped to clarify the differences between `git rebase` and `git pull` through practice. Another interesting benefit from this exercise was the opportunity to read through the bash scripts included with the sample repository. 

Having read the [Balancing Makers and Takers to scale and sustain open source][2], it was interesting to read about the ways in which open source may be considered a common good in much the same way as fishing waters or fresh water. Consequently, managaing the distribution of its usage is critical. 

I have chosen to contribute to [Gatsby.js][5] because it is an active and growing open source project that I believe I can contribute to having previous experience with React and knowledge of Javascript. I currently have the development environment for Gatsby set-up and have read through the documentation, though I have yet to settle on an issue to contribute to. I think that this might be a [good one][6] or this [one][7], though I'll have to look into them more.

[1]: http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html
[2]: https://dri.es/balancing-makers-and-takers-to-scale-and-sustain-open-source
[3]: http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/ar01s03.html
[4]: http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/ar01s06.html
[5]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby
[6]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/18284
[7]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/18280

