---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


*What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project? What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them?*

As first contributions to an open source project, I think suggesting addition(s) to the documentation, answering a question publicly, or submitting a suggestion for a feature would be most suitable. To make a contribution to the documentation of the project would necessitate reading through and understanding the code base as a user in order to make it easier for new users to understand the project. In doing so, this would provide me with the experience to answer a question publicly on a thread where other users also familiar with the software would be able to review the thought process for my solution. As a result, I would be in a better position to make a suggestion for a feature having read through the documentation and demonstrated an understanding of how the code works. 

	I would be interested in contributing to Gatsby.js and Python as these are tools that I use regularly. In the case of Gatsby.js, I view it as a tool that facilitates working through problems or improving performance in front-end development. Comparatively, Python is a language that I like to tinker with using its different libraries and I'd be interested in learning how to incorporate a Python library myself. Lastly, I'd be interested in learning the intricacies of how Gimp handles and manipulates image data as well as if there was a feature I could contribute.

Reviewed material from:
 * [How to Contribute to Open Source Without Coding][1]
 * [Getting Started in Open Source][2]


[1]: https://icontribute.wordpress.com/how-to-contribute-to-open-source-without-coding/
[2]: https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source_gettingstarted/